                 Jurisdiction`s name                                 Republic of Korea
                    Last update                                       30, May, 2023
                              Information on Tax Identification Numbers
                                       Section Ⅰ - TIN Description

   In Korea, two types of Tax Identification Number (TIN) are used for filing tax returns: a
Resident Registration Number and a Business Registration Number.

1. Individuals :

   A Resident Registration Number, which is issued by the Ministry of Interior to a Korean
   citizen residing in the country, should be used as his or her TIN when a corporation
   withholds taxes from its employee’s wages and salaries or an individual files tax returns
   for income, transfer, inheritance and/or gift.

   For the purpose of CRS reporting, A Passport Number is also admitted as a TIN in the
   Passport issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

2. Entities :

   Likewise, an entity starting a business should obtain a Business Registration Number from
   the head of a district tax office in its jurisdiction and use the number as its TIN for all tax
   returns, including corporate tax returns, that are filed.

   In case of a legal person that has registered its foundation to the court, it is given a
   Corporation Registration Number managed by Court. Exceptionally, a Corporation Registration
   Number is also accepted as the TIN for an entity.

Automatic issuance of TINs to all residents for tax purposes :

1. Individual: yes

       If no, instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN are:

2. Entities(as defined by the CRS): yes

       If no, instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN are:

                                       Section Ⅱ - TIN Structure

1. Individuals
   A Resident Registration Number consists of 13 digits (XXXXXX-XXXXXXX) and is

   assigned based on the following criteria:
   (a) It is made up of an individual`s date of birth with 6 digits.
       For example, a person born on Januay 2, 1985 has the first six digit such as 850102.

   (b) It identifies the sex of individuals.

                                     Koreans                            Foreigners
  Year of Birth        before 2000             after 2000     before 2000         after 2000
      Male                  1                       3              5                   7
     Female                 2                       4              6                   8


2. Entities
 ① A Business Registration Number consists of 10 digits.
     - TIN structure : XXX-XX-XXXXX
 ② A Corporation Registration Number consists of 13 digits.
     - TIN structure : XXXXXX-XXXXXXX.



                                 Section Ⅲ - Where to find TINs?

1. Overview

    A Resident Registration Number of an individual can be verified from his or her resident
registration card issued by the local government in his or her jurisdiction. The Business
Registration Number of entities is given in its business registration certificate issued by the
district tax office in its jurisdiction. The Corporation Registration Number can be found in the
Certified Copy of the Corporate Registry.



2. Resident Registration Number

   A Resident Registration Number is displayed on the front side of a Resident Registration Card
issued by the Ministry of Interior.


                                    < Resident Registration Card>
  The passport number can be found in the first page of a passport issues by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs.


                                          <Passport>




3. Business Registration Number

   A Business Registration Number can be found on the front side of a Business Registration
Certificate issued by the National Tax Service.
                              <Business Registration Certificate>
4. Corporation Registration Number

   A Corporation Registration Number can be found on the upper left table of on the first
page of Certified Copy of the Corporation Registry issued by the Court.


                                    < Resident Registration Card>




                     Section IV - Websites for further information on TIN
For further information, please visit:
  - Resident Registration Number:
     https://www.mois.go.kr/frt/sub/a06/b06/IDCard/screen.do
  - Business Registration Number
     http://www.nts.go.kr/nts/ad/nf/nltFormatApiList.do?mi=40178
                       Section V - Contact point for further information

AEOI Manager Ms. Jiyeon Kang
Offshore Information Division,
International Tax Management
National Tax Service
Phone: +82 44 204 2940
E-mail : aeoi.nts@korea.kr
