      Jurisdiction’s name:                                                           Hungary

                                     Information on Tax Identification Numbers

    Section I – TIN Description

    For individuals Hungary issues TINs which are not indicated on official documents of identification. The
    paying agent has to indicate this number on the payment documents. The TIN for individuals in Hungarian is
    called: “adóazonosító jel”.

    However individuals wishing to pursue business activities that incur entrepreneurial tax or VAT
    payment liability shall also have to obtain the type of TIN issued to entities (“adószám”).

    Entities wishing to pursue taxable activities shall register with the state tax authority in order to receive a tax
    number. The registration procedure is governed by Act XCII of 2003 on the Rules of Taxation. For companies
    the TIN is recorded in the register of companies. The TIN for entities in Hungarian is called: “adószám”.

           Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)

    Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

          Individuals                      [Yes]                       Entities                         [No¹]

    Section II – TIN Structure

     Format                                Explanation                            Comment

     9999999999                            1 block of 10 digits, where:           TIN for individuals

                                           digit 1 is always an 8 and             The syntax of the TIN is published
                                           indicates that the TIN holder is an    in Act XX of 1996.
                                           individual;

                                           digits 2-6 are the number of days
                                           between the date
                                           01/01/1867 and the date of birth
                                           of the individual;

                                           digits 7-9 is the number generated
                                           by chance to differentiate
                                           individuals born on the same day;

                                           digit 10 is the check digit
     xxxxxxxx-y-zz                         Composed of 11 numerical               TIN for entities and certain
                                           characters, where:                     Individuals

                                           xxxxxxxx is a block of 8 digits        y and zz may change due to
                                           which serves as the unique             change        in  taxpayer’s
                                           identifier of the taxpayer;            circumstances

                                           y is a so called “VAT code” which
                                           indicates whether the taxpayer is
                                           registered for VAT purposes (the
                                           code is 2) or not (the code is 1);
                                           
                                           zz is the territorial code of the
                                           competent tax office in Hungary


¹In the case of entities, the issuance of TIN is not automatic: generally, entities have to initiate the issuance of
TIN at the Court of Registry during the incorporation procedure, while, in certain cases, the issuance of TIN can
be provided directly by the tax authority.
                                    

Section III – Where to find TINs

TINs for individuals are not reported on official documents of identification but they can be found on the
Hungarian TIN card.

Hungarian TIN card (old format)




Hungarian TIN card (new format)




Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

Further information in English can be found at the website of the National Tax and Customs Administration:
http://en.nav.gov.hu/

Section V – Contact point for further information
Ms Edit Kucsera, chief expert of the National Tax and Customs Administration of Hungary: ki.utf@nav.gov.hu

