Jurisdiction’s name: United Kingdom

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description

The United Kingdom does not issue TINs in a strict sense, but it does have two TIN-like numbers,
which are not reported on official documents of identification:

1. The unique taxpayer reference (UTR). The format is a unique set of 10 numerals allocated
automatically by HMRC for both individuals and entities who have to submit a tax return. Although
used on tax returns and some other correspondence, the UTR is not evidenced on a card or other
official document.

2. The other reference used in the UK, is the National Insurance Number (NINO). This consists of two
letters, six numbers and a suffix letter A, B, C or D (for example DQ123456C). All individuals living
regularly in the United Kingdom are either allocated or can be issued with a NINO. A NINO is issued
automatically to young people living in the UK when they approach the age of 16. The NINO is used
on a number of official documents. Individuals are notified of their NINO by an official letter, from
the Department for Work and Pensions or HM Revenue and Customs. However this contains the
statement, “This is not proof of identity” and therefore it cannot be used to verify the identity of the
holder. The NINO can be quoted as the tax reference number on some official documents from HM
Revenue and Customs.

Both the UTR and NINO are personal and private to the party they are allocated to; they are fixed for
ever and they are always in the same format.

However, not all resident taxpayers, or all nationals, are issued with a UTR or NINO.
Individuals may also have documentation showing a PAYE Temporary reference number (TRN)
which is generated internally when a full NINO cannot be traced or is not held. This consists of 2
numerals, 1 letter, 5 numerals (ie 99L99999).

Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)

Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

Individuals No 
Entities No

Question 2a – If you answered no to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those instances
where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.

TINs are not issued to individuals who do not have a liability for UK tax or National Insurance
Contributions, this includes those under 16 years of age, those who do not have a right to work in the UK
as well as those with no UK tax or National Insurance Contributions liability.

Question 2b – If you answered no to Question 1 with respect to Entities (as defined by the CRS),
describe those instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN.

TINs are not issued to all UK resident trusts.

Section II – TIN Structure

Format Explanation Comment

9999999999 10 numerals UTR: Unique Taxpayer

Reference

LL999999L 9 characters:
- 2 letters
- 6 numerals
- 1 letter (always A, B, C or D)

NINO: National Insurance

Number

Section III – Where to find TINs?

The Unique Taxpayer Reference (UTR) and the National Insurance Number (NINO) do not appear on
official identification documents. Both identifiers are unique and personal to the individual concerned.
Unique Taxpayer Reference (UTR)

The UTR may be found on the front page of the tax return (form SA100 or CT600) as shown in the
example below:

The UTR may also be found on a “Notice to complete Tax Return” (form SA316 or CT603) or a
Statement of Account. Depending on the type of document issued the reference may be printed next to
the headings “Tax Reference”, “UTR” or “Official Use”.

National Insurance Number (NINO)

HMRC issues coding notices to taxpayers. The heading of the notice contains the National Insurance
Number as indicated in the example below:

The National Insurance Number may also be shown on a National Insurance card and on letters issued
by the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). The number also appears on an employee's pay slip
and on a Statement of Account issued by HMRC.

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

Information on UTR on HMRC’s internet site:

http://www.hmrc.gov.uk/index.htm

Information on National Insurance Numbers:

http://www.hmrc.gov.uk/ni/intro/basics.htm

No online checker is available.

Section V – Contact point for further information

[We are still considering this and whether it is appropriate to use the same contact as we have for
EUSD].

dwp/hmrc.nationalinsurancenumberboard@hmrc.gsi.gov.uk
