    Jurisdiction’s
                                                                        GHANA
       name:

                           Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description
The Commissioner General of the Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) is mandated by the Revenue
Administration Act,2016, (Act 915) as amended, to maintain a system of taxpayer identification
numbers for the purpose of identification of taxpayer and promotion of tax compliance.
Upon application, a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) is issued by the Commissioner General to:
    a. A person who is liable to pay tax or ;
    b. A person who conducts official business with specified institutions provided in the Revenue
        Administration Act (RAA) ;
when the Commissioner General is satisfied about the true identity of the applicant and that the
applicant does not have an existing TIN.

The two main categories of persons who may be issued with a TIN are :
      Individuals
      Organisations

A Taxpayer Identification Number issued under Act 915 is not transferable

From 1st April, 2021 the 15- character Ghanacard Personal Identification Number, (Ghanacard PIN)
issued by the National Identification Authority (NIA), became the TIN for individuals who are eligible
for the Ghanacard. The Non-citizen card of foreign individuals permanently resident in Ghana also
serves as their TIN. The GRA is therefore integrated with the NIA for the purpose of issuing the
common unique number (Ghanacard PIN) for tax purposes. Currently the existing TIN is used
alongside the Ghanacard PIN until 31st December, 2021 when only the Ghanacard PIN of existing
taxpayers will be accepted for all tax transactions.

The GRA, however, continues to directly issue TIN to the following persons:
      non-resident individuals
      foreign mission employees
      Organisations (both those required to register with the Registrar General Department
          (RGD) and those not required to register with the RGD)
Organisations that are required to register with the RGD initiate their TIN registration at the RGD as
part of the entity registration process and are issued a TIN by the GRA in collaboration with the RGD.

After identification of taxpayers the GRA further administers the appropriate tax types where
necessary - i.e tax types that are applicable to each identified person are then registered
appropriately for tax compliance purposes. There is no separate TIN for administration of tax types.

   Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)
Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax
purposes?
     Individuals                 [No]                  Entities                  [No]

Question 2a – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those
instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.
Response: TIN is not issued automatically; It is upon application by the individuals to whom
paragraph 1 above applies.
Question 2b – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to Entities (as defined by the
CRS), describe those instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN.
Response: TIN is not issued automatically; It is upon application by entities to whom paragraph 1
above applies. Limited Liability Companies, Foreign Missions, Government agencies
registering their entities are provided TIN upon application.
Section II – TIN Structure
The GRA TIN is an 11-digit alpha-numeric number issued individuals who are not eligible for the
Ghanacard PIN and entities, each with a unique prefix as follows:

P00……….For Individuals
C00………. For Companies limited by guarantee, shares, Unlimited (i.e organisation required to
register with
            the RGD)
G00………. Government Agencies, MDAs
Q00……….Foreign Missions, Employees of foreign missions
V00……….Public Institutions, Trusts, Co-operatives, Foreign Shareholder (Offshore),( Entities not
           registered by RGD)

The NIA Ghanacard PIN now TIN for eligible individuals is a 15-digit number structured as follows:

there are 3 parts : Country Code, 8 or 9 digit number, checksum character. Each of the elements
are separated with a hyphen ‘-‘

    1. The country code is the 3 letter ISO country code showing the nationality of the person at
       first registration.
    2. The 8/9 digit number is system generated.
    3. The checksum character can be a number or character. This is used internally to validate
       a PIN during the PIN creation process.

Once a PIN has been assigned it cannot be changed. In cases where an individual changes
nationality after their first registration the PIN will not change.

Section III – Where to find TIN
       Any return, claim, declaration, notice, statement ,or other documents for the purpose of a tax
        law (TIN To be provided by taxpayer on the document)
       Company Registration Certificate
       Business Name Certificate
       Taxpayer Identification Number Certificate

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website
The GRA website : https://gra.gov.gh.
TIN Information on website include :
     Verify TIN – an online verification tool that enables the public to verify status of TINs for
        individuals.
     Update TIN - an online tool that enables the public to (i) view the status of TIN- Ghanacard
        link requests and (ii) submit a TIN - Ghanacard link request, where the two numbers are not
        automatically linked.
     Organisation TIN form (for organisations that are not required to register with the RGD)
     A write up on TIN

Section V – Contact point for further information
The Commissioner-General
Ghana Revenue Authority
Starlets 91 Road,
Ministries – Accra
P . O. BOX GP 2202, ACCRA-GHANA

+233 20926 7047
+233 20926 7048
+233 20926 7049

Email: info@gra.gov.gh

Website: https://gra.gov.gh

