Jurisdiction’s name: Nigeria

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description

In Nigeria, TIN is issued to both individuals and business entities. Individuals in
employment are given TIN by the States Board of Internal Revenue/Federal
Capital Territory Inland Revenue Service (JTB TIN) while members of the armed
forces of Nigeria, Nigeria Police Force, diplomat, and corporate entities are
issued TIN by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). The TIN is a unique
identification number to be used by all registered persons/entities for payment of
all tax types. Nigeria does not issue separate TIN for different taxes.

Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)

Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

Individuals

[Yes/No] Yes

Entities

[Yes/No] Yes

Question 2a – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those instances
where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.

Response:

Question 2b – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to Entities (as defined by the CRS), describe
those instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN.

Response:

Section II – TIN Structure

TIN issued by the FIRS comprises of numerical values with a hyphen. The structure is eight
digits, a hyphen then the 0001 e.g., 12345678-0001 while that of the JTB is purely numerical
and contains 10 digits.

Section III – Where to find TINs

i. Tax Clearance Certificate (individual and corporate)

ii. Annual tax returns form

iii. Payment receipts issued by designated collecting banks

iv. VAT certificates and invoices

v. JTB tax card

vi. Revenue receipts issued by tax authorities

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

i. The link for individual consultation of TIN (issued by JTB);
https://tinverification.jtb.gov.ng/

ii. The link for entity consultation of TIN (issued by FIRS);
https://apps.firs.gov.ng/tinverification/

Section V – Contact point for further information

Please provide here the contact details of the competent service authority, which can be contacted in case of
further questions on TINs.


