Jurisdiction’s name: ALBANIA

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description

The TIN for individuals (NID) is issued to Albanian citizens and foreign citizens of permanent
residence within the Republic of Albania´s territory, serving: 1. For the National Registry of Civil
Status. 2. For the national identity document. 3. As a social security number to identify, register and
claim benefits from social security, health insurance and other social protection programs. 4. For the
National Register of Elections. 5. As a Tax Identification Number. 6. For the driving license. 7.
For the needs of other state institutions, (justice, order, prosecution, education and the Property
Registration Office).

The TIN for taxpayers is issued by the National Business Center (NBC), an Albanian government
body.

Any business carrying its activity in the Republic of Albania must be provided with the Number of
Identification as Taxable Person. Initial registration and any subsequent changes to the registration,
are done by applying at the National Business Center (NBC). Initial registration of non-profit
organizations, tax representatives and farmers are made at the Regional Tax Directorate of the
respective district.

Automatic issuance of TINs to all residents for tax purposes:
Individual: yes

If no, instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN are:
Entities (as defined by the CRS): yes

If no, instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN are:

Section II – TIN Structure

The TIN (issued to taxpayers – legal entities / persons exercising economic activity) appears like
this: J12345678N.

The first character is a capital letter, indicating the decade the TIN was issued (e.g. "J" for 1990 -
1999, "K" for 2000 - 2009, etc.)

The 2nd character indicates the year (within the above-mentioned decade) the TIN was issued (e.g. 1
for 2011, 2 for 2012)

3rd and 4th characters indicate the converted month of the year the TIN was issued, depending on
district where the business was established for the first time (e.g. January for Tirana - 13, February
for Tirana - 14, January for another district - 25, February for that district - 26, etc.)

5th and 6th characters indicate the day of the month the TIN was issued (e.g. 01, 02, 03 etc.)

Characters 7 to 9 indicate the issuing order of the TIN within the above-mentioned day and in a
specific district, (e.g. 009 is the 9th TIN issued in Tirana district, 108 is the 8th TIN issued in another
district, etc)

10th character is a check digit (capital letter), calculated according to a formula that depends on the
first 9 characters.

The TIN for individuals (National ID number NID), is a unique number, consisting of ten characters
(e.g. I05101999Q) with coded information and with the following structure:
Characters 1and 2: year of birth
Characters 3 and 4: month of birth, gender
Characters 5 and 6: day of birth
Characters 7 to 9: issuing order number, within the same date
Character 10: check digit.

Section III – Where to find TINs?

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

Information on TIN for taxpayers: https://www.tatime.gov.al/eng/c/4/103/business-lifecycle

Information on TIN for individuals: https://www.tatime.gov.al/eng/c/3/12/21/individual

TIN verification tool: not available.

Section V – Contact point for further information
info@tatime.gov.al
