Jurisdiction’s name: ARGENTINA

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description

The Federal Administration of Public Revenue assigns a unique number (CUIT, for its Spanish
acronym) to each taxpayer enrolled.

The registration process differs between individual or legal persons.

The individual is registered at the agency corresponding to its fiscal domicile (in which the economic
activity is performed) and provides the necessary information and documents to prove its identity
(birth date, ID Nº) and domicile (certificate by a notary public, title deed or rental agreement, bank
account or credit card statement, municipal permit, among others).

Argentinian individuals may also request their CUIT electronically with the mobile APP “Mi AFIP”.
For this they will need a mobile device with a camera and their ID (DNI).

In the case of legal persons, the request for registration must be done electronically, providing the
identifying information about the partnership (registered name, legal domicile and any other related
data), information about the members (authorities, equity shares, partners and shareholders), and any
other information related to the activity performed, taxes and fiscal domicile. The representative will
appear in person at the AFIP premises in order to provide all the necessary documentation to prove
the existence of the legal person, which will vary according to the legal nature (partnership business,
trust, permanent establishment, etc.) After having verified the documents submitted and accepted the
registration, the AFIP will provide the CUIT assigned to said legal person.

Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)

Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

Individuals [Yes] Entities [Yes]

Question 2a – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those instances
where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.

Response:
CDI - Identification Code
The Identification Code - CDI - represents a numeric code that the AFIP issues to individuals who are
not required to have a CUIT or CUIL (see below) due to the fact that there is no tax or social security
reason to have one but otherwise is required to be identified for certain procedures.

CUIT - Individual Taxpayer Identification Number
Any individual beginning an economic activity must register with various government agencies,
including the AFIP. Upon registration, a CUIT is granted by AFIP; thus, he/she acquires a tax identity
vis a vis third parties, and is therefore entitled to develop its activities on a legal basis.

CUIL -Workers Identification Number
The CUIL is required for Social Security benefit’s purposes. The CUIL is granted automatically and
simultaneously with the ID (DNI).

Question 2b – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to Entities (as defined by the CRS), describe
those instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN.

Response:
CDI - Identification Code
The Identification Code - CDI - represents a numeric code that the AFIP issues to entities not required
to have a CUIT due to the fact that there is no tax reason to have one but otherwise is required to be
identified for certain procedures.

CUIT - Individual Taxpayer Identification Number
Entities beginning an economic activity must register with various government agencies, including the
AFIP. Upon registration, a CUIT is granted by AFIP; thus, they acquire a tax identity vis a vis third
parties and are therefore entitled to develop its activities on a legal basis.

CIE – Foreign Investors Code
Legal persons, non-business groups and / or any other foreign resident collective entity willing to
make financial investments in Argentina with no CUIT or CDI must request the Foreign Investors
Code.

https://serviciosweb.afip.gob.ar/genericos/guiasPasoPaso/VerGuia.aspx?id=192

Section II – TIN Structure

The CUIT consists of 11 digits:

- the first 2 digits indicate the person: the numbers 20, 23, 24 or 27 are assigned randomly for
individuals on a non-binary basis, and 30 or 33 for legal persons.

- The next 8 digits are: in the case of individuals, the ID (DNI) number; and in case of
legal persons, it is assigned by the AFIP.

- The last digit is the verification number and it is randomly assigned.

Section III – Where to find TINs

Once the CUIT / CUIL / CDI / CIE has been assigned, persons become part of the taxpayers’ register
of the Federal Administration. Any person may enter the AFIP’s website and see the Proofs of
Registration (General Regime) or Registration of Monotributo (Simplified Tax Regime for Small
Taxpayers) of any of the registered taxpayers, thus having access to the information regarding their
tax status.

The TIN may be verified at:

https://seti.afip.gob.ar/padron-puc-constancia-internet/ConsultaConstanciaAction.do
Proof of registration (model)
