  Jurisdiction’s name:                                                         Mexico

                               Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description


 Under this item, jurisdictions should provide a narrative description of the criteria governing the
 issuance of the TIN (e.g. some jurisdictions may only issue TINs to individuals, or to individuals that
 are filing tax returns; other jurisdictions may also issue TINs to (as subset of) Entities). In addition,
 information about the TIN issuing bodies, as well as the taxes for which the TIN is used as means of
 identification (e.g. income tax, wage tax, withholding taxes, VAT, etc.). In case a jurisdiction issues
 separate TINs for different taxes (e.g. income taxes, VAT, etc.), jurisdictions should only provide
 information in relation to the TINs they would expect to be provided for identification purposes in the
 context of the CRS.

 Furthermore, jurisdictions may provide any useful information regarding the validity and frequency
 of renewal of TINs, as well as any recent changes made to the structure of their TINs.

 Any further information regarding TINs that jurisdictions deem useful for publication on the CRS
 Portal may also be added in this narrative section.

 The Mexican Tax Administration Service assigns a unique number (Clave en el Registro Federal de
 Contribuyentes - RFC) to each person enrolled in such Registry; the issued RFC has a special structure
 depending on the type of taxpayer (individuals or legal entities). The latter is the only distinction
 provided for in the Mexican tax provisions.

 The pre-registration process is available online, which has to be completed directly at the
 Decentralized Administration Office of Services to the Taxpayer (Administración Desconcentrada de
 Servicios al Contribuyente) of the Mexican Tax Administration Service.

 The documents required, among others, to obtain the registration are:

     a) Individuals.- (1) Birth certificate or CURP (Clave única de registro de población - Unique
        Key of Population Registry); (2) proof of address; (3) government-issued identification and
        (4) online pre-registration number (if applicable).

     b) Legal entities.- (1) Certificate of incorporation; (2) proof of address; (3) power of attorney
        and identification of the authorized representative of the legal person, and (4) online pre-
        registration number (if applicable).

 Mexican Tax Code (Art. 27) also establishes the obligation to register in the Federal Taxpayer Registry
 and obtain a RFC for individuals and legal entities who must submit periodic tax returns, or to issue
 digital tax invoices for the acts or activities they carry out or for the income they earn, as well as,
 individuals and legal entities who open a financial account in an institution of the Mexican financial
 system or in savings and loan cooperatives where they receive deposits or perform transactions that
 may be subject to taxation; the legal representative, partners and shareholders of legal entities, as well
 as the persons who acquired their shares through recognized or widely stock markets and those shares
 are deemed as having been placed amongst the general public investors, provided that, in this latter
 situation, the partner or shareholder should not have requested registration in the book of partners and
 shareholders

 Individuals of legal age (18 years old) without economic activities, must apply for registration in the
 Federal Taxpayer Registry, who will not have the obligation to submit tax returns or pay contributions.
 Individuals and legal entities who submit any document to the tax and jurisdictional authorities in
 matters in which the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit or the Tax Administration Service are
 parties, must at all times cite the key that the Tax Administration Service has assigned to them at the
 time of registering it in the Federal Taxpayers Registry.

 The abovementioned Code (Art. 42) grants the tax authorities the power to request taxpayers with
 information necessary to update the Federal Taxpayer Registry, as well as to register those taxpayers
 who, in accordance with the tax provisions, are requested to be registered and have not fulfilled such
 requirement.

 Applications for registration in the RFC will be mandatory for legal entities resident in Mexico, legal
 entities resident abroad with permanent establishment in Mexico, legal entities resident abroad without
 permanent establishment in the country and legal arrangements such as “asociación en participación”
 and “fideicomiso”.


 Relevant tax provisions:

 Article 27 – Mexican Tax Code
 Article 22 – Mexican Tax Code Regulations
 Administrative Regulation 2.4.11– Mexican Tax Regulations for 2023 (RMF for its acronym in
 Spanish)


    Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)
Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?
         Individuals                        No                       Entities                     No

Question 2a – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those
instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.
(If no, instances where individuals and Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN are:)

In Mexico there is no automatic procedure for issuing a TIN to individuals or entities, it is the
responsibility of the individual or entity to register in the Federal Taxpayer Registry to obtain a TIN.

According to the Mexican tax laws and regulations, the only legal entities and individuals are requested
to register to obtain a TIN are those who (i) are required to file periodic tax returns or to issue digital tax
invoices for the activities carried out or for the income earned, (ii) open a financial account (at FIs
pertaining to the Mexican financial system as well as Cooperative Savings and Loan Societies with
respect to transactions that may be subject to taxation).

In addition, the individuals of legal age (18 years old) must apply for registration in the Federal Taxpayer
Registry, regardless of whether they have or they have not a business activity.

Additionally, entities are required to submit the notifications set forth by the Federal Fiscal Code
regarding their legal representatives as well as partners and shareholders.

Section II – TIN Structure
This section contains information on the alphanumeric structure of the TIN, the use of slashed, capital
letter, hyphens, etc. In addition, jurisdictions would outline the meaning given to the numbers and letters
that make up the TIN (including for instance the use of check digits).

The structure of the RFC varies depending on the type of taxpayer.
For individuals, it consists of 13 characters (4 letters followed by 6 digits and 3 alphanumeric characters)
and for legal entities (and certain legal arrangements), it consists of 12 characters (3 letters followed by
6 digits and 3 alphanumeric characters). The first letters (4 or 3, respectively) belong to the name, the
next 6 digits are the date of birth or date of incorporation, and the last 3 (or 2, for legal entities) belong
to the check digits (homoclave).

Section III – Where to find TINs
In this section, jurisdictions should list the official documents where the TIN can be found, such as the
photo page of passports, social security cards, corporate documents, etc. Ideally, jurisdictions would
provide scans of the documents on which they would highlight the place where the TIN can be found.

Taxpayers who register in the Federal Taxpayer Registry will be provided with a tax identification
number known as Federal Taxpayer Registry (RFC), as well as with a tax identification card or
certification of tax registration once they comply with all the requirements set forth by the Mexican Tax
Administration Service.

Below, please find the documentation obtained from the Mexican Tax Authorities:
    TAX IDENTIFICATION CARD




ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF REGISTRATION
                             CERTIFICATION OF TAX SITUATION




Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

In this section, jurisdictions can provide hyperlinks to their domestic website where further information
on TINs can be found. In addition, jurisdictions could provide a link to an online TIN-verification tool,
if available.

For further information:

Realiza tu inscripción en el RFC persona física. - Trámites del RFC - Portal de trámites y servicios -
SAT

Portal de trámites y servicios - SAT
Inscripción en el RFC de personas morales en la ADSC | | gob.mx (www.gob.mx)

https://rfcampc.siat.sat.gob.mx/PTSC/IdcSiat/IDCPersonaMoral/IdcPMPaso1DatosDeIdentificacion.jsf

Online TIN Verification Tool:

https://portalsat.plataforma.sat.gob.mx/ConsultaRFC/


Section V – Contact point for further information
Under this header, jurisdictions would provide the contact details of the competent service within their
tax administration, which can be contacted in case of further questions on tax residency.

Mexican Competent Authority:

Central Administration of Exchange of International Information (Administración Central de
Intercambio de Información Internacional)

Avenida Hidalgo 77, Col. Guerrero, Alcaldía Cuauhtémoc, C.P. 06300, Ciudad de México.
Telephone attention from anywhere in the country dial 55 627 22 728 and for abroad (+52) 55 627 22
728.

