  Jurisdiction’s name:                                                     Germany

                               Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description


 The Federal Central Tax Office (Bundeszentralamt für Steuern) issues a uniform and permanent tax
 identification number (TIN) to every individual who is subject to tax, for purposes of unambiguous
 identification in taxation procedures. Taxpayers (and third parties who must submit a taxpayer’s data
 to the revenue authorities) must indicate this TIN on applications, declarations or notifications
 submitted to the revenue authorities (sections 139a and 139b of the Fiscal Code).

 In addition to the taxpayer’s TIN, the Federal Central Tax Office stores the information specified in
 section 139b of the Fiscal Code (name, address, date of birth, etc.).

 Access to the data stored in connection with a taxpayer’s TIN is granted exclusively to German
 revenue authorities within the context of the tasks assigned to them by law.

 In the future, legal persons, associations of persons and economic actors subject to tax are to be
 assigned a business identification number (sections 139a and 139c of the Fiscal Code). The procedure
 for introducing and issuing business identification numbers is currently being developed.
        Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)

Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

      Individuals                    Yes                       Entities                     No

Question 2a – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those instances
where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.

Response:

Question 2b – If you answered No to Question 1 with respect to Entities (as defined by the CRS), describe
those instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN.
Response:
As long as the TINs for entities haven’t been issued in Germany, the order criterion will be the tax
number.
Section II – TIN Structure

 TINs are comprised of 11 digits: 10 digits plus one check digit.

 TINs are non-descriptive numbers, i.e. they provide no indications as to a taxpayer’s name, gender
 or other tax-related information.
Section III – Where to find TINs


 The Federal Central Tax Office promptly sends a written notice to taxpayers informing them of the
 TIN that has been issued to them and the data that has been stored together with the TIN.


                                     (see attached pdf file).
 A taxpayer’s TIN is also indicated on tax assessment notices and correspondence from revenue
 authorities.
 Taxpayers (and third parties who must submit a taxpayer’s data to the revenue authorities, such as
 financial institutions) must indicate this TIN on applications, declarations or notifications submitted
 to the revenue authorities.

 The use of TINs is permissible exclusively within the context of taxation procedures. The use of
 TINS in other official documents such as identity cards or pension insurance cards is not permitted.

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

Information on tax identification numbers can be found on the Federal Central Tax Office’s website
at:

https://www.bzst.de/DE/Privatpersonen/SteuerlicheIdentifikationsnummer/
steuerlicheidentifikationsnummer_node.html

Section V – Contact point for further information
The contact points for questions regarding tax identification numbers are the competent tax offices or
the Federal Central Tax Office:

Federal Central Tax Office An der Kueppe 1
53225 Bonn
Phone: +49 228 406 1240 (Monday to Friday, 8:00 am to 4:00 pm)

