Jurisdiction’s name: Uruguay

Last update: 29.09.2017

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I TIN Description

The Single Register of Tax Payers Number (RUT for its acronym in Spanish) is the
identification received by customers of the Tax Administration for tax purposes. (Physical or legal
persons and other pluripersonal entities).

The Tax Administration shall assign the RUT number according to:

Legal persons and other multi-personal entities: RUC/T. The RUT number is
a number provided by the Tax Administration and is used in the case of legal
entities and certain physical persons carrying out business activities or who have
been assigned a RUT number (example: commercial activity, services, net worth).

IDCard: Identity Card for Physical Persons: a Card issued by the National

Office of Civil Identification. This applies provided the Physical person does not
have a RUT number in force.

NIE Identification Number for Foreign Physical Persons. This is a
number provided by the Tax Authority (RUT Department) to those foreign
physical persons who do not have an Identity Card in force, issued by the
National Office of Civil Identification, neither a RUT number.

Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers
(TINs)

Question 1 Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax
purposes?

Automatic issuance of TINs to all residents for tax purposes:

Individual: yes
Entities (as defined by the CRS): yes

In relation to this previous answer we would like to driving your attention in following points: the
Single Register of Tax Payers Number (RUT for its acronym in Spanish) is the identification received
by customers of the Tax Administration for tax purposes. (Physical or legal persons and other
pluripersonal entities).

The Tax Administration shall assign the RUT number according to:

Legal persons and other multi-personal entities: RUT. The RUT number is a number provided by
the Tax Administration and is used in the case of legal entities and certain physical persons carrying
out business activities or who have been assigned a RUT number (example: commercial activity,
services, net worth).

IDCard: Identity Card for Physical Persons: a Card issued by the National Office of Civil
Identification. This applies provided the Physical person does not have a RUT number in force.

N This is a number provided

by the Tax Authority (RUT Department) to those foreign physical persons who do not have an
Identity Card in force, issued by the National Office of Civil Identification, neither a RUT number.

Section II TIN Structure

RUT NUMBER:

This number is formed by 12 digits, the first two indicate the registration number, the following six
sequential digits indicate the number and the last 4 are always where x is the
verifying digit.

Where:

- NNNNNNNNNNN: is formed by eleven digits containing a unique number.

- D: is formed by one digit containing the verification digit for the full number.

FOREIGNERS` IDENTIFICATION NUMBER N I E

This number is formed by 9 digits, with the following definition:

- 9NNNNNNN: is formed by eight digits containing a unique number.

- D: is formed by one digit containing the verification digit for the full number.

Identity Card Number:

This number is granted by the DNIC (National Direction of Civil Identification), and is formed by 7
numbers, plus a verifying digit. For our RUT records, we register the number without any points or
hyphens.

Section III Where to find TINs?

Please list the official documents where the TIN can be found, such as the photo page of passports,
social security cards, corporate documents, etc. Ideally, jurisdictions would provide scans of the
documents on which they would highlight the place where the TIN can be found.

RUT NUMBER:

Section IV TIN information on the domestic website

Register of Physical Persons with IDCard or NIE:

http://www.dgi.gub.uy/wdgi/page?2,inscripcion,preguntas-frecuentes-
ampliacion,O,es,0,PAG;CONC;1017;8;D;que-documentacion-es-necesaria-para-inscribirse-como-
contribuyente-de-irpf;6;PAG;

Registration of legal entities with RUT, for example, associations with a partnership agreement:
http://www.dgi.gub.uy/wdgi/page?2,inscripcion,preguntas-frecuentes-
ampliacion,O,es,0,PAG;CONC;1017;8;D;como-debo-hacer-para-inscribir-sociedades-personales-con-
contrato-colectiva-s-r-l-en-comandita-simple-ltda-;11;PAG;

Section V Contact point for further information

Cr. Alejandro Grilli
agrilli@dgi.gub.uy
Tel.: +598 2 1344 int. 6446 and;
Dr. Guillermo Nieves
gnieves@dgi.gub.uy
Tel.: +598 2 401 74 63
