Jurisdiction’s name: Canada

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description

Tax identification numbers (TINs) exist in Canada in various forms and are issued to residents and non-
residents of Canada. The descriptions below focus on residents of Canada – the persons for which a
TIN is required to be collected for exchange of information purposes under the Common Reporting
Standard.

Individuals

For individuals resident in Canada, their authorized tax identification number is their nine-digit
Canadian Social Insurance Number (SIN) issued by Service Canada. Every individual resident in
Canada with income tax filing obligations (or in respect of whom an information return is to be made)
is required to have (or obtain) a SIN.

SINs are confidential but are required to be furnished on request to financial institutions for tax reporting
purposes.

For more information on the SIN, including how to apply for one, go to Service Canada.

Corporations

For corporations, their tax identification number is a unique nine-digit Business Number (BN) issued
by the Canada Revenue Agency. Corporations resident in Canada have income tax reporting obligations
and are required to have a BN.

For more information on the BN, including how to apply for one, go to Business Number (BN)
registration.

Trusts

For trusts, their tax identification number is their eight-digit trust account number preceded by the letter
“T” issued by the Canada Revenue Agency. Trusts resident in Canada with income tax reporting
obligations are required to have a trust account number.

For more information on the trust account number, including how to apply for one, go to Application
for a Trust Account Number.

Partnerships

For partnerships, their tax identification number is a unique nine-digit Business Number (BN) issued
by the Canada Revenue Agency. Partnerships required to file a partnership return in Canada or with
commercial affairs in Canada are required to have a BN.

For more information on the BN, including how to apply for one, go to Business Number (BN)
registration.

Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)

Question 1 – Does Canada automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

Individuals: No
Entities: No

Question 2a – If you answered no to Question 1 with respect to individuals, describe those
instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN.

Individuals resident in Canada have to apply for a TIN. A TIN can be issued to any Canadian resident
on request.

Every individual resident in Canada who files an income tax and benefit return (or in respect of
whom an information return has to be filed, such as by an employer) is required to have (or obtain)
a TIN.

Question 2b – If you answered no to Question 1 with respect to Entities (as defined by the CRS),
describe those instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN.

A TIN will be issued to any entity resident in Canada upon request.

All corporations resident in Canada are required to have a TIN.

Trusts and partnerships with their place of management in Canada are required to have a TIN if they
have income tax reporting obligations in Canada.

Section II – TIN Structure

The structure of the TIN varies depending on the type of taxpayer or filer:

• A SIN is a unique nine-digit number issued by Service Canada to identify individuals.

• A BN is a unique nine-digit number issued by the Canada Revenue Agency to identify
businesses and partnerships.

• A trust account number is a unique eight-digit number preceded by the letter “T” issued by the
Canada Revenue Agency to identify trusts.

Section III – Where to find TINs?

Canadians who have applied for a Social Insurance Number (SIN) before March 30, 2014, would have
received a SIN card. The SIN card is not an identity document and contains no photo. Effective March
31, 2014, the production of SIN cards was discontinued however; SIN cards in circulation that have not
expired remain valid. Service Canada now issues SINs to individuals in a letter format instead of a card.

SINs can be found on the front page of an individual income tax return. SINs can also be found on
notices of assessment issued by the Canada Revenue Agency (see examples below).
