 Jurisdiction’s name:                                                      ISRAEL

                              Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description
Please provide a narrative description of the criteria governing the issuance of the TIN (e.g. some
jurisdictions may only issue TINs to individuals, or to individuals that are filing tax returns; other
jurisdictions may also issue TINs to (a subset of) Entities). In addition, information about the TIN
issuing bodies, as well as the taxes for which the TIN is used as means of identification (e.g. income
tax, wage tax, withholding taxes, VAT, etc.). In case a jurisdiction issues separate TINs for different
taxes (e.g. income taxes, VAT, etc.), please only provide information in relation to the TINs you
would expect to be provided for identification purposes in the context of the CRS.

Furthermore, jurisdictions may provide any useful information regarding the validity and frequency
of renewal of TINs, as well as any recent changes made to the structure of their TINs.

Any further information regarding TINs that jurisdictions deem useful for publication on the CRS
Portal may also be added in this narrative section.



       Additional information on the mandatory issuance of Tax Identification Numbers (TINs)



Question 1 – Does your jurisdiction automatically issue TINs to all residents for tax purposes?

      Individuals                  [Yes]                 Entities                  [Yes]



Section II – TIN Structure
This section contains information on the alphanumeric structure of the TIN, the use of slashed, capital
letter, hyphens, etc. In addition, please outline the meaning given to the numbers and letters that make
up the TIN (including for instance the use of check digits).

The "TIN" for an Individual is his ID number.

For companies – numbers, without special meaning.

The Israeli TIN structure for a company / an individual includes only 9 numeric characters.


Section III – Where to find TINs
Please list the official documents where the TIN can be found, such as the photo page of passports,
social security cards, corporate documents, etc. Ideally, jurisdictions would provide scans of the
documents on which they would highlight the place where the TIN can be found.


Individuals – ID cards.

Companies – corporate documents.
Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

Please provide hyperlinks to their domestic website where further information on TINs can be found.
In addition, please provide a link to an online TIN-verification tool, if available.


Section V – Contact point for further information
Please provide the contact details of the competent service authority, which can be contacted in case
of further questions on TINs.

 Chilik Cohen,
 EOI Manager

 International Tax Division,
 Israeli Tax Authority
 E-mail: Chilikco@taxes.gov.il
 Tel: 972-74-7614794.

 125 Menachem Begin Rd.
 Tel Aviv 6701201
 ISRAEL

