Jurisdiction’s name: Australia

Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description

Australian Tax File Number (TFN)

The TIN in Australia is referred to as the Tax File Number (TFN). The TFN is used by individuals
and entities that have a need to interact with the ATO. Examples of such interactions include the need to
report information to the ATO, lodge income tax returns or interact in the superannuation
(retirement income) system. A TFN can be issued to individuals or non-individual entities
(companies, trusts, partnerships, and superannuation funds).

A TFN is issued under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (ITAA 1936) upon application by the
client or as required by the ATO for internal purposes.

Applying for a TFN can be completed online or via paper channels and will be issued once sufficient
proof of identity has been provided. For an individual this includes one primary document (birth
certificate, passport, citizenship certificate) and up to two secondary documents (driver licence, Medicare
card, bank statement, firearms licence, student card, proof of age card, student examination certificate).
Proof of identity requirements for partnerships, companies and trusts include establishing the identity of
the partners, director(s) and public officer and trustee respectively.

Australian Business Number (ABN)

Australian businesses use the Australian Business Number (ABN) as a single identifier for all business
dealings with the ATO and for dealings with other government departments and agencies. The ABN is
also used for tax identification purposes.

Businesses need an ABN to register for the goods and services tax and other elements of The New Tax
System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.

Similar to a TFN, the application process for an ABN can be completed online or via paper channels.

Additionally, registration for GST can be completed simultaneously with an ABN application.

The Australian Government introduced the ABN in response to the Small Business Deregulation Task
Force Report, which called for a single identifier to simplify business dealings with the Australian
Government. A client’s ABN is available to State, Territory and local government regulatory bodies
to streamline registration requirements.

Automatic issuance of TINs to all residents for tax purposes:

Individual: No

If no, instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN are:

An Australian TIN (Tax File Number, or TFN) is not automatically issued to all residents. A TFN is
obtained by individuals upon application. Individuals generally use a TFN to interact with the Australian
Taxation Office for various purposes and therefore most individuals have a TFN. This includes lodging
income tax returns, reporting information to the ATO, obtaining government benefits and obtaining an
Australian Business Number (ABN) in order to carry on a business. Under Australian law a person cannot
be compelled to have a TFN or quote it to another person. However, withholding tax at the highest
marginal tax rate (49%) generally applies to individuals who do not provide a TFN to third parties such as
employers and contractors they receive payments from.

Entities (as defined by the CRS): No

Similar to TFNs for individuals, entities and individuals carrying on a business are not automatically
issued an ABN. They must apply for one using their TFN. An ABN is required for dealings with the
Australian Taxation Office and other government agencies such as registering for goods and services tax
and meeting other legal and regulatory obligations, and therefore most entities have an ABN. Failure to
quote an ABN to counterparties in business dealings also generally results in the entity or individual being
subject to withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate (49%).

Section II – TIN Structure

The TFN is an eight or nine digit number compiled using a check digit algorithm to allow accurate data
capture of the TFN in ATO systems. Generally the TFN is displayed on correspondence as three sets of
three numbers (for example XXX XXX XXX) but is stored as an eight or nine number string on internal
systems.

The ABN is a unique 11 digit number formed from a nine digit unique identifier and two prefix check
digits. The two leading digits (the check digits) will be derived from the subsequent nine digits using a
modulus 89 check digit calculation. The check digits will be included to identify common data entry
errors such as digit transposition. The ABN will be structured as XX XXX XXX XXX.

For bodies registered under Corporations Law, their ABN will be formed by prefixing two digits to their
Australian Company Number or Australian Registered Business Number issued by the Australian
Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC). These companies must have their identity established
and first register with ASIC prior to the normal registration process for an ABN. The ABN will
eventually replace the ACN and the ARBN.

Section III – Where to find TINs?

An individual or entity is advised of their TFN or ABN in writing upon finalisation of the application
and the number will be visible in secure online interfaces. A TFN may also be found on employment
payment summaries, share statements, health insurance documentation, and superannuation
statements. The TFN or ABN may also be used as a reference on certain ATO correspondence and
assessments (see sample below).

Businesses are encouraged to include ABN details on business stationery, especially invoices. If ABN
details are not disclosed, payments from business clients are subject to withholding tax at a rate of 49 per
cent.

Businesses with an ABN are identified on the publicly available Australian Business Register (ABR)
which can be consulted through the ABN Lookup tool, among other things, to verify the attribution of an
ABN to an account holder for CRS purposes, an Australian business name, or GST status. Only some of
the information provided by ABN applicants is publicly available.

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website

For more information on TFNs for individuals please visit the TFN website for individuals on
ato.gov.au (alternatively to reach this website search for ‘QC 22600’ on ato.gov.au). Similarly, for
more information regarding TFNs for non-individuals please visit the TFN website for non-
individuals on ato.gov.au (alternatively search for ‘QC 31784’).

For more information regarding ABNs please visit abr.gov.au and search for ‘QC 182’.
Verification of TFN is available to businesses and superannuation funds registered for access to
EmployerTICK and SuperTICK respectively. More information on these programs can be found by going
to ato.gov.au and searching for ‘QC 39672’ for Employers and ‘QC 35377’ for superannuation funds.

To search for an ABN or its publicly available information please visit abr.business.gov.au and use the
ABN Lookup tool.

Section V – Contact point for further information

The following website contains information about contacting the ATO in relation to TINs and other
questions: https://www.ato.gov.au/About-ATO/About-us/Contact-us/
