                            Information on Tax Identification Numbers

Section I – TIN Description
In accordance with paragraph 7 of Article 84 of the Russian Federation Tax Code all Russian
taxpayers whether individuals or businesses are assigned a unique Taxpayer Personal Identification
Number known as INN (Russian analog for TIN).

The INN refers for all types of taxes in the Russian Federation.


       Depending on circumstances for individuals INN may be assigned by the tax authority
        at the place of individual’s permanent residence
        at the place of individual’s temporary residence (in case individual has no permanent
          residence in Russia)
        at the place of individual’s immovable property or vehicle (in case individual has no
          permanent or temporary residence in Russia)

For Russian legal entities INN is assigned by tax authority at the location of legal while registration
of such legal entities.

For foreign legal entities conducting business activity in the territory of Russian Federation through
a branch, representative office, division, bureau, office, company or any other separate business unit,
INN is assigned by tax authority at the place of such business activity while registration of such
separate business unit.

Automatic issuance of TINs to all residents for tax purposes:

Individual:  yes

         If no, instances where individuals are not being automatically issued a TIN are:

Entities (as defined by the CRS): yes

         If no, instances where Entities are not being automatically issued a TIN are:

Section II – TIN Structure

INN has the following structure:

     1) For businesses it is a ten-digit code

 N      N      N        N       X       X         X        X   X       C



     2) Foreign organizations are also assigned a ten-digit code

 9      9     0     9       X       X         X       X        X   C



     3) For individuals it is a twelve-digit code
 N      N      N      N     X      X    X     X      X     X     C     C



The INN is generated as a digital code comprised of a sequence of digits which characterize:

1) NNNN (4 digits)

For Russian organizations and individuals – code of the tax authority which assigned the INN.

For foreign organizations – index defined by the Federal Tax Service.

2) XXXXX (XXXXXX)

For Russian organizations (individuals) – a sequence number of the person’s entry in the territorial
section of the Unified State Register of Taxpayers (USRT). It consists of 5 digits in case of
organizations and 6 digits in case of individuals.

For foreign organizations – code of foreign organization according to the reference book “Foreign
Companies Coding”.

3) C (CC) – control number (1 digit for organization, 2 digits for individuals)

It is generated according to a unique algorithm set by the Federal Tax Service.

Section III – Where to find TINs?

INN can be found from the certificate of registration of an individual or business as a taxpayer.

Note: INN is not related to the passport number.

Section IV – TIN information on the domestic website
Link to information about INN on FTS of Russia web-portal:

http://www.nalog.ru/eng/exchinf/inn/

Link to FTS of Russia online service allowing to find out information on registration of legal entities
and individual entrepreneurs (currently available only in Russian):

egrul.nalog.ru.

Link to FTS of Russia online service Find out an INN (TIN) (currently available only in Russian)

https://service.nalog.ru/inn.do.

Section V – Contact point for further information

Mr. Maxim Kuznetsov
Head of Automatic Exchange of Information Division
Federal Tax Service of Russia
mns11324@nalog.ru
+7 495 913-03-79
